README.md, before:

# Flask-Meld

Project inspiration - [Ditch Javascript Frameworks For Pure Python Joy](https://michaelabrahamsen.com/posts/flask-meld-ditch-javascript-frameworks-for-pure-python-joy/)

Meld is a framework for Flask to meld your frontend and backend code. What does
that mean? It means you can enjoy writing dynamic user interfaces in pure Python.

Less context switching.
No need to write javascript.
More fun!

# Initialize Meld in your project

For the sake of example, here is a minimal Flask application to get things
running:

```py
from flask import Flask, render_template
from flask_meld import Meld

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config['SECRET_KEY'] = 'big!secret'
socketio = app.socketio

meld = Meld()
meld.init_app(app)


@app.route('/')
def index():
    return render_template("base.html")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    socketio.run(app)
```

# Add `{% meld_scripts %}` to your base html template

This sets up the application and initializes Flask-Meld.

```html

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Meld Example</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div>
        <!-- Add the line below to include the necessary meld scripts-->
        {% meld_scripts %}

        {% block content %}
            <!-- Using a component in your template is easy! -->
            {% meld 'counter' %}
        {% endblock %}
        </div>
        <style>
        </style>
    </body>
</html>
```

# Components

Components are stored in `meld/components` either within your application folder or in the base directory of your project.

Components are simple Python classes.

The `counter` component:

```py
# app/meld/components/counter.py

from flask_meld.component import Component


class Counter(Component):
    count = 0

    def add(self):
        self.count = int(self.count) + 1

    def subtract(self):
        self.count = int(self.count) - 1
```

# Templates

Create a component template in `templates/meld/counter.html`. By creating a file
within the `templates/meld` directory just include `{% meld 'counter' %}` where
you want the component to load.

Here is an example for counter:

```html
<!-- templates/meld/counter.html -->
<div>
    <button meld:click="subtract">-</button>
    <input type="text" meld:model="count" readonly></input>
    <button meld:click="add">+</button>
</div>
```
Let's take a look at that template file in more detail.

The buttons use `meld:click` to call the `add` or `subtract` function of the
Counter component.
The input uses `meld:model` to bind the input to the `count` property on the
Counter component.

# Forms

A big part of creating web applications is using forms. Flask-Meld integrates with
WTForms/Flask-WTF to make validating forms happen in real-time if you choose.

Define your form with Flask-WTF just as you normally would.

```py
# forms.py
from flask_wtf import FlaskForm
from wtforms import StringField, PasswordField
from wtforms.validators import DataRequired, Email, EqualTo


class RegistrationForm(FlaskForm):
    email = StringField('Email', validators=[DataRequired(), Email()])
    password = PasswordField('Password', validators=[DataRequired()])
    password_confirm = PasswordField('Confirm Password', validators=[DataRequired(), EqualTo('password')])
```

```html
<!-- templates/meld/register.html -->
<div>
    <form meld:submit.prevent="submit">
        {{ form.csrf_token }}
        <div>
            {{ form.email.label }}
            {{ form.email }}
            <span> {{ errors.password | first }} </span>
        </div>

        <div>
            {{ form.password.label }}
            {{ form.password }}
            <span> {{ errors.password | first }} </span>
        </div>
        <div>
            {{ form.password_confirm.label }}
            {{ form.password_confirm }}
            <span> {{ errors.password_confirm | first }} </span>
        </div>
        <div>
            <button type="submit">Register</button>
        </div>
    </form>
</div>
```


# Define the form in the component

```py
# meld/components/register.py
from flask_meld import Component
from forms import RegistrationForm


class Register(Component):
    form_class = RegistrationForm
```

# Realtime form validation

To make your form validate as a user types use the `updated` function. This will provide
the form field and allow you to validate on the fly. Simply call `validate` on the
field.

```py
# meld/components/register.py
from flask_meld import Component
from forms import RegistrationForm


class Register(Component):
    form_class = RegistrationForm

    def updated(self, field):
        self.validate(field)
```

Pretty simple right? You can use this to create very dynamic user interfaces
using pure Python and HTML. We would love to see what you have built using Meld
so please share!

Commit message:

add additional information about the form template

README.md, after:

# Flask-Meld

Project inspiration - [Ditch Javascript Frameworks For Pure Python Joy](https://michaelabrahamsen.com/posts/flask-meld-ditch-javascript-frameworks-for-pure-python-joy/)

Meld is a framework for Flask to meld your frontend and backend code. What does
that mean? It means you can enjoy writing dynamic user interfaces in pure Python.

Less context switching.
No need to write javascript.
More fun!

# Initialize Meld in your project

For the sake of example, here is a minimal Flask application to get things
running:

```py
from flask import Flask, render_template
from flask_meld import Meld

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config['SECRET_KEY'] = 'big!secret'
socketio = app.socketio

meld = Meld()
meld.init_app(app)


@app.route('/')
def index():
    return render_template("base.html")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    socketio.run(app)
```

# Add `{% meld_scripts %}` to your base html template

This sets up the application and initializes Flask-Meld.

```html

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Meld Example</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div>
        <!-- Add the line below to include the necessary meld scripts-->
        {% meld_scripts %}

        {% block content %}
            <!-- Using a component in your template is easy! -->
            {% meld 'counter' %}
        {% endblock %}
        </div>
        <style>
        </style>
    </body>
</html>
```

# Components

Components are stored in `meld/components` either within your application folder or in the base directory of your project.

Components are simple Python classes.

The `counter` component:

```py
# app/meld/components/counter.py

from flask_meld.component import Component


class Counter(Component):
    count = 0

    def add(self):
        self.count = int(self.count) + 1

    def subtract(self):
        self.count = int(self.count) - 1
```

# Templates

Create a component template in `templates/meld/counter.html`. By creating a file
within the `templates/meld` directory just include `{% meld 'counter' %}` where
you want the component to load.

Here is an example for counter:

```html
<!-- templates/meld/counter.html -->
<div>
    <button meld:click="subtract">-</button>
    <input type="text" meld:model="count" readonly></input>
    <button meld:click="add">+</button>
</div>
```
Let's take a look at that template file in more detail.

The buttons use `meld:click` to call the `add` or `subtract` function of the
Counter component.
The input uses `meld:model` to bind the input to the `count` property on the
Counter component.

# Forms

A big part of creating web applications is using forms. Flask-Meld integrates with
WTForms/Flask-WTF to make validating forms happen in real-time if you choose.

Define your form with Flask-WTF just as you normally would.

```py
# forms.py
from flask_wtf import FlaskForm
from wtforms import StringField, PasswordField
from wtforms.validators import DataRequired, Email, EqualTo


class RegistrationForm(FlaskForm):
    email = StringField('Email', validators=[DataRequired(), Email()])
    password = PasswordField('Password', validators=[DataRequired()])
    password_confirm = PasswordField('Confirm Password', validators=[DataRequired(), EqualTo('password')])
```

# Create your template

Use WTForm helpers to create your form in your HTML template. 

```html
<!-- templates/meld/register.html -->
<div>
    <form meld:submit.prevent="submit">
        {{ form.csrf_token }}
        <div>
            {{ form.email.label }}
            {{ form.email }}
            <span> {{ errors.password | first }} </span>
        </div>

        <div>
            {{ form.password.label }}
            {{ form.password }}
            <span> {{ errors.password | first }} </span>
        </div>
        <div>
            {{ form.password_confirm.label }}
            {{ form.password_confirm }}
            <span> {{ errors.password_confirm | first }} </span>
        </div>
        <div>
            <button type="submit">Register</button>
        </div>
    </form>
</div>
```

Using the WTForm helpers saves you a little bit of typing.  
Alternatively, you can define your HTML form without using the helpers. For example, to
make a field use
`<input id="email" meld:model="email" name="email" required="" type="text" value="">`
Just make sure that `meld:model="name_of_field"` exists on each field. 


# Define the form in the component

```py
# meld/components/register.py
from flask_meld import Component
from forms import RegistrationForm


class Register(Component):
    form_class = RegistrationForm
```

# Realtime form validation

To make your form validate as a user types use the `updated` function. This will provide
the form field and allow you to validate on the fly. Simply call `validate` on the
field.

```py
# meld/components/register.py
from flask_meld import Component
from forms import RegistrationForm


class Register(Component):
    form_class = RegistrationForm

    def updated(self, field):
        self.validate(field)
```

Pretty simple right? You can use this to create very dynamic user interfaces
using pure Python and HTML. We would love to see what you have built using Meld
so please share!
